[THEME MUSIC]
>>ANITA MOORJANI: My parents
are very, very Hindu,
wanted to set me up with
an arranged marriage.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
>>MOORJANI: But they sent me to
a British school for education.
I was also a huge
fan of Cyndi Lauper.
His parents made it
clear I would not
be allowed to work or be
independent or go back
to study or earn my own money.
>>REGINA: Did you
go through with it?
Conflating your fashion
choices with the salvation
of your soul?
>>MOORJANI: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: Bad guru.
Very bad guru.
>>MOORJANI: I went into a coma.
The doctors told my family
that these were my final hours,
but I started to
become aware that I
was surrounded by beings.
Three weeks after the NDE, they
could find no trace of cancer
in my body.
It's not about doing and doing.
It's about undoing,
letting it all go
and setting yourself free.
We look up to ruthless people.
We see empathy and
sensitivity as a weakness.
What if we decided
it was a strength?
>>REGINA: With us
today is a woman
who came to the
public's attention
about a decade ago when
she wrote her book "Dying
to Be Me" about her near-death
experience from terminal
cancer and an amazing
spontaneous healing.
I'm speaking of Anita
Moorjani whose new message
is as poignant today
as her original book.
This is both a cautionary
tale and a tale
of total empowerment.
Welcome, Anita.
It's so good to meet
you in the flesh.
We've kind of had
near-misses with each other.
>>MOORJANI: We have.
I know.
I'm really happy to be here
and speaking to you today.
>>REGINA: Yes, and likewise.
And I want to start this
interview off with a story
that, as I was reading this, I
thought, no, this is so wrong.
And we're talking about a
chapter in your new book called
"Banned from Nirvana".
The book is "Sensitive
is the New Strong."
And your parents
took you to a guru
because you were in the shameful
position of being unmarried
at the age of 26.
OK.
And this is from the
East Indian tradition.
So let's talk about what
this guru said to you.
>>MOORJANI: So I want to
backtrack and set it up.
So a couple of things going
on in my life at that time.
My parents are very,
very Indian Hindu,
wanted to set me up with
an arranged marriage.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOORJANI: But they sent me to
a British school for education.
So I was very westernized.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOORJANI: I was also a
huge fan of Cyndi Lauper.
>>REGINA: Oh, my gosh.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
So I had my hair cut like hers.
I would color my hair with
the neon colors sometimes,
and I would emulate her,
the clothes and everything.
Because that song, "Girls
Just Want to Have Fun,"
it just spoke to me back then.
So my parents are trying
to arrange a marriage
for this daughter that
emulates Cyndi Lauper.
>>REGINA: And the parents
of the potential intended
didn't like this whole girls
just want to be fun attitude?
>>MOORJANI: No, because in
my culture at that time,
a woman's worth was measured by
how good she was at housework.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and cooking.
>>MOORJANI: And
cooking and cleaning.
I'm terrible at cleaning.
I'm not good with housework.
And also we were
measured by how valuable
we are to the men in our
community and in our families.
So we always had to make
ourselves serve men and be
of service to men.
And I was kind of brought up and
trained or geared towards one
day I'm going to have
an arranged marriage,
and so I have to
be able to please
not only a husband but his
parents because you marry
into the whole family and you
end up living with his parents.
And so what my parents would
see when they would look at me
is that, oh, any future
potential boy or fiancé
or husband's parents are
not going to approve of you.
They're not going
to approve of you.
So sure enough, when they took
me to see the Indian guru,
and in our culture,
again, these gurus
are what we call the Maharaj.
They check your horoscope
and they tell you
when you're going
to get married.
So they took me there to
say we're having trouble
getting our daughter married.
Could you check her
horoscope to see when
is she going to get married?
And he took one look at me,
and like any potential Hindu
in-laws, he looked at me
with the same eyes and said,
oh, my gosh, no wonder
she's not married.
Look at-- yeah, look
at how she's dressed.
Look at her hair.
She's not wearing
Indian clothes.
And they took it as
a sign of disrespect.
And so he actually
started to tell me
what it was that I needed
to do in order to gain favor
from my religion, my
culture, from nirvana,
to be able to go into nirvana.
And he was saying
all these things
which are out of
character for me to be.
Now, again, remember
all my friends,
my peers were British kids,
so I had this huge exposure
to this other culture that's
not just my parents' culture.
So I wanted to fit
in with my peers.
So when he would say
that you need to do this,
you need to be more
respectful, subservient,
you need to cover your
head when you come here,
and so on and so on, and
I would say, but why?
I questioned it because none
of my peers needed to do that.
So I said, why do I
need to do those things?
And he said, if you ever
want to get to nirvana,
you have to do those
things because god will not
let you in if your soul is still
dirty, if it's still tarnished.
You have to cleanse yourself
and follow these things.
>>REGINA: Conflating
your fashion choices
with the salvation of your soul?
>>MOORJANI: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: Bad guru.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Very bad guru.
Oh, my gosh.
So when you walked away from
this sage, how did you feel,
and what did that do to you?
And what did that
do to your family?
>>MOORJANI: Well, it
crushed me completely.
It crushed me because
here I was being told now
from somebody who is an
authority of spirituality
and the other side.
So it really crushed me,
and it set me on a path
where I felt, oh,
my gosh, maybe I
do need to become
more "spiritual."
And so I started to try
to figure out what does it
take to be more spiritual?
Like, do I have
to meditate more?
Do I have to pray more?
Do I have to dress differently?
But before that, I
had this spirit, this
really like a very joyful, like,
a free bird spirit that got
crushed.
It really started to get
crushed because he reinforced
in my parents that this is
why they're having trouble
getting me married, and that
I don't respect the culture.
I don't respect the religion.
And so--
>>REGINA: Ultimately them.
>>MOORJANI: And ultimately them.
So it did.
It crushed my spirit.
>>REGINA: OK, so then you became
a pleaser, a people pleaser?
>>MOORJANI: I did.
>>REGINA: You tried
twisting yourself
into a pretzel to be a good girl
and make everyone else happy.
And let's talk about that phase
of your life, a perfectionist.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, so
then I really believed
that I had to be
more subservient,
be more of a homemaker, although
that wasn't my preference.
I actually wanted to travel.
I wanted to work.
And I was told, in
terms of working,
I wanted to study more.
I wanted to go to university.
But I was told that
all of this would
be dependent on your future
husband and his parents.
That they would have to approve.
And so the more you educate
yourself, the less desirable
you are for an
arranged marriage.
Certainly it was
true at that time.
And so I had to literally
pause on a lot of things
that I wanted to do.
I wanted to earn my own
money, work, travel,
do all of those things
and be independent.
But all of those things were
seen as wrong in my culture
unless your husband and/or
your in-laws approved of it.
And so finally, in order
to please my parents,
I did say yes to an
arranged marriage.
And when I was engaged--
>>REGINA: Were they unique
because they accepted--
because they accepted you?
Or had you calmed
everything down
and were you appearing to
me more like a normal girl?
>>MOORJANI: I was appearing
to be more like a normal girl.
However, at that time,
for an arranged marriage,
you had to be more around
the age of 19, 20, 21.
So they made me feel like they
were making a huge adjustment
accepting me at age 26.
>>REGINA: Doing you a favor?
>>MOORJANI: They were
doing me a favor.
So because they then accepted
me, I wasn't allowed to say no,
because then I was seen as being
really picky and ungrateful.
>>REGINA: And what about--
OK, so between you
and them is the man?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about that for a moment.
What was he like?
How did he perceive you?
>>MOORJANI: So although he
was nice and he was sweet,
he wanted me to make
his parents happy.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>MOORJANI: And
his parents wanted
me to learn to cook
and clean, and they
wanted me to wear more Indian
clothes and to cover my head
and to go to the
temple twice a week.
And his parents made
it clear I would not
be allowed to work or be
independent or go back
to study or earn my own
money, none of those things.
>>REGINA: But you went
through with the marriage?
Did you go through with it?
>>MOORJANI: No, so three
days before the wedding--
>>REGINA: Oh, this is gutsy.
>>MOORJANI: I know.
I just couldn't go
through with it.
I thought, oh, my gosh,
this is the rest of my life.
I can't.
I can't do it.
And I ran away.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah,
and if you know--
>>REGINA: This is a big deal.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, and if you
know anything about Indian
weddings--
>>REGINA: Oh, they're days long.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, so
everything was booked,
you know, the venues,
the people had flown
in from all over the world.
>>REGINA: All over the caterers.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Oh, my gosh.
>>MOORJANI: All of it; the
musicians, the horses, like,
everything.
>>REGINA: That is
so gutsy to do that.
I have been to Indian
weddings and the pre-events
and all of it, and
it's so staged.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, it is.
It's choreographed.
It's staged, all of it.
The videographers,
all of it was booked.
So this was in 1987.
>>REGINA: Wow, what a
courageous thing to do.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, I look back
on it now, and I think it is--
I am surprised that
I was able to do it
because I used to be so fearful
and such a people pleaser.
And it seems really courageous,
but at the same time,
I was very fearful of
getting into the marriage
and the whole--
>>REGINA: Well, understandably.
Yeah, I mean, it wasn't for you.
I just-- I mean, I really
admire your courage.
I would have never been--
like, I was in that situation,
I couldn't do it.
It's like, oh, god
everybody would be so upset.
I'll figure it out later.
>>MOORJANI: So what
happened actually,
and I haven't shared
this part publicly,
is that I confided in my mom
three days before the wedding,
and I just cried and cried.
And I said, mom, I'm miserable.
I'm miserable.
And she said, why didn't
you tell me earlier?
You don't have to go
through with this.
I said, but I
can't back off now.
Everybody's going to be upset.
And she said, yes, they
are, but I'll back you up.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's wonderful.
>>MOORJANI: I know.
Bless her.
And she just passed away.
>>REGINA: She just passed
away a few weeks ago.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah, she
and I were so close.
>>REGINA: What a wonderful mom.
>>MOORJANI: And sure
enough, everybody was upset,
and they took it
out on her as well.
They said, you've
spoiled your daughter.
You should just slap her and
have her show up at the temple.
How can you let her do this?
>>REGINA: What a story.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So what
happened to you then?
I mean, obviously, you and
your mom understood each other
and stayed close.
But what happened
to your family,
and what happened
to you after this?
>>MOORJANI: So I was ostracized
from the community completely.
I was told that no other
Indian man would marry me
after what I'd done.
No parents of Indian men would
let their son come near me.
So I was basically, yes,
completely rejected.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you
were an outcast.
>>MOORJANI: I was
an outcast, exactly.
So what I did was
I gradually started
to become more independent
because of this,
because I was rejected anyway.
>>REGINA: Nothing to lose.
>>MOORJANI: Nothing to lose.
So I started working.
So I worked for a
few years, and I
started to meet people from
all different cultures.
And my life was
actually pretty OK.
It wasn't bad at all.
And then interestingly,
I met my husband, Danny,
who happens to be Indian.
But the interesting thing is he
had told his parents that he's
not going to marry
an Indian woman,
and they had been trying to
arrange a marriage for him.
>>REGINA: You're
both black sheep.
>>MOORJANI: So he was a
complete black sheep as well,
and so we realized
we really hit it off.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's wonderful.
So then you just had
a private marriage
on your own and not a big deal?
>>MOORJANI: Yes, we had a--
>>REGINA: Not the kind
of production as before?
>>MOORJANI: Yes, we had
a much smaller wedding.
>>REGINA: Did your
mother and father come?
Did your mother--
>>MOORJANI: So my
mother was there,
but my dad had passed away
prior to me getting married.
>>REGINA: OK.
But your mom was
there to support you?
>>MOORJANI: Yes, she was.
>>REGINA: That's
a wonderful story.
So when was that?
When did you marry Danny?
>>MOORJANI: We got married
in 1995, December of '95.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MOORJANI: So it was
about seven, eight years
after I ran away from
the arranged marriage.
So I went and worked
for a few years and--
>>REGINA: Now let's talk
about your spiritual path
because this is important.
You were trying everything.
You were trying
really hard to be
a spiritually wise,
developed woman.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, I was.
>>REGINA: A seeker?
>>MOORJANI: A seeker.
And so I took the
spiritual path of,
like, I really
lived my life to--
the guru impacted
me, so I really
lived my life to try and create
the best possible afterlife
because I had this
belief, again,
not only because of that guru
but things that were instilled
in me, that I had this belief
that you have to try and finish
your karmic cycles.
You attain nirvana when you
don't need to come back again,
and that's the
reward that you don't
need to come back here
again and live another life.
>>REGINA: So you have to live
perfection while incarnate?
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
So I tried to attain that
perfection so that I wouldn't
need to be incarnate again.
And so in order to
attain that perfection,
I felt that I needed to meditate
more, cleanse myself more,
be more pure of thought.
But of course, what I
didn't realize at that time
is that when you're trying
to do it, it's contrived.
It's not who you are.
>>REGINA: It's so much pressure.
Number one, it
was based on fear,
fear of not getting
into nirvana.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So everything
was fear driven, which
is not a good way to blossom.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
And because of that, I didn't
realize that I had actually--
I was, over the years, since
this whole thing happened,
even after running
away from the marriage,
even though I had a
job and everything,
I still really held on to that
guilt and the feelings of being
ostracized from my community
and having people--
it just feels awful when
you think that there's
so many people that disapprove
of you and your choices
and think a certain way
of you, because inside, I
knew I was not that person.
And so I lived with all of
that eating away inside at me.
>>REGINA: So you're
trying to overcome it
by being good and pious
and everything correct?
>>MOORJANI: Yes, exactly.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK, so along the
way, you had your friends,
and you had a couple of
key people close to you
that had developed
cancer, right?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
that part of your journey.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, so my best
friend who I grew up with,
we were the same age,
and we knew each other
since we were at school.
She developed
cancer, and it seemed
to just come out of the blue.
And it was an aggressive cancer.
It was literally, right from
when she was diagnosed--
so she's fine one day to me.
That's how it looks.
But she's having trouble
breathing, a little bit
of trouble breathing.
But other than that,
she looks fine,
and she's going up and down
the stairs, and she's saying,
oh, I'm having trouble
catching my breath.
>>REGINA: Would you
have been in your 30s?
>>MOORJANI: We were in our 30s.
So we were young.
We were in our 30s.
So she goes to the
doctor, and they
find that she has this
huge tumor in her chest
that's pressing against
her lungs and her heart.
And so they told her it was a
very aggressive form of cancer
and that her survival
rate was 0% to 5%,
that there was a 95% chance
that within two years
she would not be around.
When she got that news,
it was devastating.
But for me, I felt it as
if it had happened to me.
I couldn't believe it.
It was devastating
for me to hear
that here is my best friend
who's like a sister to me
and she's just been
diagnosed with this.
And I suddenly found
that I couldn't even
live my own life without
constantly thinking about her
and worrying about her and
worrying about what she's
going through and her family.
>>REGINA: More fear.
Loads of fear.
>>MOORJANI: Loads of fear.
And I was-- like,
I couldn't even
go out with my
friends to have fun
because I would
be thinking, what
right do I have to be out
here laughing and eating
when she's dying?
I should be there with her and
comforting her and cheering her
up.
And so for the entire
time that she was sick,
I just did not take care.
>>REGINA: You were devoted.
>>MOORJANI: I was devoted.
>>REGINA: To her.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, I didn't
take care of myself.
I didn't do anything for myself.
And then I think it was almost
two years, a year and a half
to almost two years, into that,
into me not doing anything
for myself, and she
was deteriorating.
She just kept deteriorating.
And even though she was--
>>REGINA: So you were eating
poorly, sleeping poorly,
all of that?
>>MOORJANI: All of that;
eating poorly, sleeping poorly.
And then I found a lump
on my neck over here,
and I went to the doctor
to have it checked out.
He did a biopsy, and he told me
that it was lymphatic cancer.
It was at stage two
lymphatic cancer,
which was a shock at first.
It was a shock.
But there was also a feeling
that came into me of,
oh, now I get to
take care of myself.
It was, like, now
I had a reason.
I had cancer too.
>>REGINA: Interesting how far
one has to go to see that.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And then she did ultimately die?
>>MOORJANI: She did
ultimately die, yes.
>>REGINA: And then you fought
the cancer about four years,
right?
>>MOORJANI: Four years.
I was fighting it
for four years.
>>REGINA: And then they
told you it's over?
>>MOORJANI: They told me I
had three months to live.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And now were you in your
early 40s back then?
>>MOORJANI: I was in
my very early 40s then?
>>REGINA: Early 40s.
>>MOORJANI: Yes,
I was in my 40s,
and then they told me I
had three months to live.
And when they told
me that, I actually
started deteriorating
even faster.
>>REGINA: Oh, well, sure.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah, much faster.
>>REGINA: You weren't
fighting anymore.
>>MOORJANI: I stopped
fighting, and I really
started deteriorating.
And then I reached a
point where my body
stopped absorbing nutrition.
And so this was
lymphatic cancer,
so it had spread throughout
my lymphatic system.
So by then, I had tumors
about the size of golf balls
all around, like, from
the base of my skull,
all around my neck.
>>REGINA: Your immune
system was collapsed.
>>MOORJANI: It was collapsed.
And my body stopped
absorbing nutrition,
so I weighed about 85 pounds.
I didn't have the strength
to stand up and walk,
so I was in a wheelchair.
But I couldn't even
hold my head up.
My head would be
hanging down like that,
and my lungs were
filled with fluid.
And so I looked like a skeleton,
and I had these open skin
lesions where toxins were
coming out of my skin.
And if I lay down,
if I lay flat,
I would choke on my own fluid.
And I was breathing
with the aid of oxygen.
I had a portable
oxygen tank with me.
>>REGINA: Did you
have enough strength
to even be fearful anymore?
>>MOORJANI: No.
Well, I was fearful of death,
but yet, I reached a point
where I stopped
fighting to stay alive
because I had been fighting
and fighting and fighting,
and then it was like--
>>REGINA: You
fought for her, then
you're fighting for yourself.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MOORJANI: And then I was done.
I was done.
>>REGINA: And so then the
wonderful part happens.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, and this
is where it gets very--
>>REGINA: And this is what
made your story your story.
So share with us what happened
next because you're gone.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, so I went into
a coma on February the 2nd.
I had been being treated--
I was being treated at
home, but my husband
rushed me to the hospital.
And the doctors told him and my
family-- my mother was there.
My brother was there.
The doctors told my family
that these were my final hours
and that I wasn't going
to come out of the coma.
And they said that
my organs were now
shutting down one by one, and my
kidneys had already shut down.
And they were already
running the tests,
and they were putting--
I was connected to
all these tubes,
and I was in the
intensive care unit.
But what the people
around me didn't know
was that I had left my body,
and I could see all of this.
I could see it all happening
all around my body,
my physical body, but I
was watching everybody.
And we're not looking
through physical eyes
because we don't
have physical eyes.
It's more like a pure awareness.
So I was aware.
It was like I had 360-degree
peripheral vision,
and I was aware
of everything that
was happening, not
only in that ICU unit,
not only in that
intensive care unit,
but beyond outside the
unit what was happening,
what the nurses were doing,
and what the conversations
that my husband was having
with the doctors outside.
And the doctor
said to my husband
that she's not even going to
make it through the night.
And also, I was
aware that they were
trying to remove
fluid from my lungs
because my body
started to choke,
and so they started to insert
needles through my back
and remove the fluid.
So I was watching
all this happen,
but then I felt myself
go deeper or higher.
And I started to become
aware that I was surrounded
by beings, and all I could
feel was this beautiful feeling
of just unconditional love.
Just this incredible
feeling of just being
bathed in love, pure love.
>>REGINA: The
opposite of your guru.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, the
complete opposite.
And the part that struck
me was that I didn't have
to do anything or be anything.
I didn't have to work
at being spiritual.
I was loved just
because I existed,
and I understood
that I am spiritual.
We all are.
We all are spirit.
We don't have to work at it.
So I just felt incredible.
I don't remember feeling this
way ever in physical life.
>>REGINA: Sure.
Yeah, who does, right?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that completely.
>>MOORJANI: Completely and being
fully accepted for who you are.
No matter what, no matter
what you've done wrong,
I was fully accepted.
>>REGINA: So then there comes
a choice point, I would assume?
>>MOORJANI: Yes, so I eventually
reached a choice point.
So I was in the coma for
about 30 to 36 hours.
And so my dad was there.
My best friend was there,
the one who I had lost.
And I reached a point--
and of course, a lot
happened in that time,
but I reached a
point where I was
given a choice as to whether
I wanted to come back or not.
No part of me
wanted to come back.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
I think we can all
relate to that, yes.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
Yes, and why would I?
>>REGINA: And
especially if you're
coming back into a
body that's, well,
so devastated with illness.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
Exactly.
But in that moment,
when I made the decision
that I don't want
to go back, I felt
my dad coaxing me to come back.
He wasn't forcing me,
but it was a gentle
that now that you know the
truth of who you really are,
you should go back.
And then there was a
message of that you haven't
completed your purpose yet.
You don't have to go back,
but in actuality, this
is not your time.
There are still some
gifts waiting for you.
And the other thing I realized--
and the communication
there is not
done with speaking
because you can't speak.
It's more, like, you know
what they want you to know.
And I realized that my husband
and I, Danny's and my purposes
were linked, and if
I didn't go back,
he wouldn't be able to
complete his purpose either.
>>REGINA: Do you
mind sharing what
his purpose, your linked,
your shared purpose was?
>>MOORJANI: Well, and what's
interesting is, at that time,
I didn't know what
my purpose was.
So the purpose wasn't
revealed to me.
I was actually just--
>>REGINA: Just that you had to
go on faith that this is true?
>>MOORJANI: That this is true.
And the instruction
I was given is just
live your life
fearlessly, and what
was meant by that was be
yourself fearlessly because I
had never been myself.
I had always been trying to be--
>>REGINA: It sounds
like when you
were trying to be Cyndi Lauper,
that was the closest you
were to yourself.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, and that
was wrong in my culture.
Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: So talk
about the experience
of after the decision
was made to come back.
Your dad says, basically, honey,
go live and live your life
fearlessly and be you.
Now you know the truth.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: So now you have to
rejoin with the physical world.
>>MOORJANI: So the minute I
made the decision to come back,
my physical eyes started
to open on my body.
My physical eyes
started to open,
and my family were
all around me.
And so they were elated, and
they said, oh, she's back.
And Danny was jumping
up and down in joy,
and I started saying
things like, dad's here.
Dad's right here.
Dad said it's not my time.
So they were wondering
what's going on.
Like, is she delusional?
And so they called the doctor,
and the doctor came in.
And so I recognized
the doctor immediately
as the one that had tried to
remove fluid from my lungs,
and I said, oh, Hi, Dr. Chan,
or good evening, Dr. Chan.
And he said, how do
you know my name?
Because he was not
the doctor that
had ever treated me before.
He was just the emergency
doctor on duty at that time.
So he said, how do
you know my name?
And I said, aren't
you the one that
removed fluid from my lungs
in the middle of the night?
And he said, yeah, but
you were in a coma.
You didn't see me.
So everybody started to
realize something had happened,
but he tried to dismiss it.
And then he said to
my family something
along the lines of don't raise
your hopes because it's not
unusual for a patient to open
their eyes for a little while,
but she's still critical.
She's still critical.
In other words, I was still
dying but don't read anything.
>>REGINA: They had
this moment of grace.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
So he leaves the
room, and then I
said to Danny that why
was he so surprised
that I recognized him?
I mean, he was in here,
and then he said to you
that I'm not even going to
make it through the night.
And Danny said, you
couldn't have heard that.
He didn't say that here.
He said that to me outside
in the nurses' station.
And that's when everyone
started to realize
that something had happened.
And in four days, the
tumors shrunk by about 60%.
That's when the doctors
also started to realize,
OK, something's happening.
>>REGINA: Some things happened.
And so your lungs, the
fluid, everything else
that was going on,
how long did it
take for your body to recover?
>>MOORJANI: So three
weeks after the NDE,
they could find no trace
of cancer in my body.
And so they were shocked.
They didn't even know what to
write in my medical record.
And in fact, my doctor
made the gesture
of wanting to sort of throw my
medical record in the trash.
There was a trash bin
right there, and he goes,
I don't even know
what to write in here.
>>REGINA: Spontaneous healing?
>>MOORJANI: Yeah, yes.
>>REGINA: So this is what-- your
spirit, your soul, and maybe
a little help from
friends, something
happened to make this
statement so that everybody
could witness it.
And then you came to the
attention of others after this.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: So how
long did it take
for you to kind of get
your life back a bit
where you gained a
little weight and you
could start functioning again?
>>MOORJANI: So it
took about two months
for me to actually be able to
start functioning and going
out and walking
properly because I
had to do a bit of
physical therapy
to get strength in my bones.
>>REGINA: You'd been
atrophied, yeah.
>>MOORJANI: Yes,
I'd been atrophied.
And so it took maybe
about two months,
but to really look
normal and gain weight,
maybe around three,
four, or five months.
But people would
see me, people who
I hadn't seen in months
who knew I was dying,
and I would walk into a
room, and they would gasp.
They would actually gasp.
It was like, oh, my
god, you look normal.
They were shocked because they
didn't know what to expect.
If they knew I was
coming to an event,
they didn't know what
to expect, how bad
I would look because I looked
terrible leading up to it,
like, really awful.
>>REGINA: Yeah, skeletal.
>>MOORJANI: Skeletal, yes.
>>REGINA: So you
understood something
during this, which was
it was the joy itself
that was the healing?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: It wasn't the fear.
It wasn't the beliefs.
That wasn't there anymore.
>>MOORJANI: No, it
was the joy itself.
So the number of times that
I had been told things like--
there was another
guru that actually
said-- when I had
the cancer and I
tried everything and
nothing seemed to work.
And he said, oh, it's
probably your karma.
You'll have to do more
good work, more good karma.
Now there I was already at that
point somebody who had already
been doing all this good
work because I wanted
to clear my karma, and I was
already this really good person
and pious and meditated
and thought of myself
as super spiritual.
And then to be told you need
to do more good work, more
charity, what it does is
it completely depletes you.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>MOORJANI: It
removes you of every--
you become invisible,
totally invisible.
>>REGINA: There was
no joy at that point.
>>MOORJANI: No joy.
What I needed was
the opposite message.
And this is why, for me,
my story is so important.
It's not about doing and doing.
It's about undoing,
letting it all go
and setting yourself free,
setting your spirit free,
because when we get these
messages that I need
to be good, I need to do
good, and it's my karma,
and I need to do
more good works,
the message you're sending
yourself and your soul--
>>REGINA: You're
not good enough.
>>MOORJANI: You're
That your spirit is
essentially flawed.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
What a simple, direct,
beautiful message.
But almost everybody seems--
I think the demands
of society and others
hold sway over us to
where we do feel we have
to perform and please others.
And actually,
instead of listening
to what's best for
ourselves, I think
that's very common for
people watching this.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, it
is, and especially--
>>REGINA: Most people do this
to one extent or another.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, and I
find especially people
on a spiritual path.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOORJANI: And so
I was taught, when
I was trying to
be very spiritual,
I was taught that you have to
be of service, which is great,
and you have to learn to see
the god in everybody's eyes
and see god in
everybody, which I did.
I was of service.
I saw god in everybody.
When I died, I
realized I'd forgotten
to see god in my own eyes.
>>REGINA: In yourself, yes.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: So you
spontaneously healed
from that ecstasy, that
bliss, and that joy?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Your being was healed.
And also I think
that was probably
in the design all
along, would you say?
>>MOORJANI: I think so.
>>REGINA: That this
happened in your life
so that you could come because
your mission wasn't finished.
It had only begun.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: So you could
share this story with others
that that's what it's all about.
And this is not to be
confused with fulfilling 3D
sensual desires and narcissism.
And talk about that for a
moment because the new book
that you've written
really has to do
with honoring empaths
and honoring sensitivity,
honoring kindness.
That this is where humanity
has to go to find its strength.
So tell us about that
because we're not
talking about just narcissism.
Like, it's all about me.
I'm just going to do
what feels good now.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, it's not that.
>>REGINA: People conflate
those two ideas oftentimes.
>>MOORJANI: And the reason
they conflate these ideas is
because the messages that
we receive, for example,
when you have spiritual messages
telling you things like the ego
is bad and you have
to squash your ego,
you have to repress your
ego, and we see the ego
as the enemy--
>>REGINA: It's not.
>>MOORJANI: But it's not.
>>REGINA: No, it's
just your identity.
It's who you are.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MOORJANI: But I grew
up believing that,
and a lot of traditional,
conventional spiritual teachers
still teach you that
the ego is your enemy.
>>REGINA: They don't
know what the ego is.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: They haven't
even defined it properly.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: And to
be preaching this
is a disservice to humanity.
>>MOORJANI: And it's
dangerous actually
because it represses
the wrong people.
So what I realized
when I looked back
on the trajectory of my
life and I looked back
at all the people and
the spiritual teachings
and the classes and
everything I went to,
I realized that the people who
go to these spiritual teachers
are already people
who are of service.
They are already
sensitive people.
They're already
being of service.
And they are getting the
message that the ego is bad
and you have to
do this for Karma.
So in other words, it's
repressing them even more.
But if people are
sharing messages like,
let's say, the ego is
bad and don't be greedy,
don't be a narcissist
and so on, the people
who really are
those things are not
going to the classes
or the lectures.
>>REGINA: No.
>>MOORJANI: So the message
is not landing on the ones
that it's targeted at.
>>REGINA: It's actually
reinforcing the ones
that you're speaking of,
the ones who are already
tend to go into more
self-service and narcissism.
It's like that's OK.
You go.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
So what ends up
happening is that we've
created a world where the
ones who are already repressed
repress themselves more--
>>REGINA: Even more, yeah.
>>MOORJANI: But those
are the voices we need.
We need the empaths
and the kind people
and the service-oriented
people to have big egos
because what does the ego do?
It magnifies who you are.
So if you are a narcissist,
you don't want a narcissist
with a big ego.
But if you have an empath,
you do want an empath
to have a healthy
ego so they can share
their gifts with the world.
>>REGINA: So you say
that, right now, we're
having more and more people
incarnate who are empaths?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because this is
the trajectory that's going
to heal the world ultimately?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about that and the work
that you're bringing
forward in your new book,
and then we can talk about
what is the ultimate goal.
I mean, it seems to me the
church of nature and friendship
and laughter is really the
church we want to attend.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: And kindness and,
like you've said, friendship.
So let's talk
about your new book
and what you're trying
to impart through it.
>>MOORJANI: So
basically what I would
like people to know is that
we've all forgotten how to be
kind and how to be empathic.
We've become very
fear-based, and fear
makes us very divisive.
And the reason why
fear makes us divisive
is fear puts us into
a survival mode,
and when you're
in survival mode,
it's every person
for themselves.
And so it makes
us very divisive.
And most of our mainstream
systems of any kind,
whether it's an education
system, a medical system,
mainstream media, and
so on, their messages
are very fear-based.
And I don't think they're doing
it consciously, maybe they are,
but I'm going to give them
the benefit of the doubt.
It could be well-meaning
to take action quickly.
And so in order to get people
to take action quickly,
we send them very
fear-based messages.
That if you don't do this
now, this will happen to you.
And so--
>>REGINA: I think also in the
age of scientific materialism,
to be a cynic is to
be a wise person.
So you're already
going to put yourself
in the mode of
rejecting anything
that's outside of the box.
>>MOORJANI: 100%.
And this is something that
I have a problem with--
>>REGINA: Me too.
>>MOORJANI: --is that
anybody who actually
sees through the
fear and who actually
sees what is driving the
problem in the first place,
it's actually the fear
of all these things
that's creating the
problem that they
think they're trying to solve.
But when you see
through the fear,
you're actually labeled as
delusional or woo-woo or any
of those things.
And that's something that
even I've dealt with.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
But I would rather
think the way I
do because I get to live
my life from a space of joy
than to actually fall into
that fear-based living, which
is what gave me cancer
in the first place.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And so, like you say, from
educational systems down,
it is popular in the
scientific materialist way
to be critical of everything,
to critique and be critical.
And when you see
any headlines-- it
doesn't matter what publication.
It doesn't matter which service
anywhere around the world.
--it's all going to be of a
critical nature bringing up
the worst in humanity.
And people confuse that with
being a critical thinker,
and this couldn't
be more opposite.
>>MOORJANI: 100%.
>>REGINA: Could you please
expand on that for us?
To be critical is not
to be critically aware.
>>MOORJANI: Yes,
so we have taken
being critical to an extreme
where we have become debunkers.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOORJANI: And that's
what I have a problem--
>>REGINA: It doesn't matter
what side you're on of anything.
We're all debunkers if
you're buying into what's
being put before us right now.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
And we have really
become debunkers,
and what we have forgotten--
so people are so determined
to be right that they've
forgotten to be kind.
And so when--
>>REGINA: Oh, boy, yes.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
And so when you have situations
like whatever has been going on
on this planet for
the last few years,
what people have forgotten
is that it doesn't matter
what side you're on
and which side is right
or which side is wrong.
What actually is
causing the problem
is how we're dividing
ourselves and how
we're hating each other.
>>REGINA: Oh, boy, yes.
>>MOORJANI: That is at the
root of this whole problem,
not who is right, who is wrong.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And it's really
clouding the field.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>REGINA: The
emotional field which
interfaces with Earth's
emotional field,
the mental plane,
which is all connected.
We're all connected
with one another
into this horrid cloud of
confusion and separation
and anxiety and fear.
That's what's ruling right now.
Period.
>>MOORJANI: That
is what's ruling.
And when we die, we find
out that we're actually
all connected.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
we're all connected.
You found that out the hard way.
Joyful but hard way.
I was interviewing an
astrologer yesterday,
and we were talking
about this cloudiness
in the field and
the nature of it,
the fear-based nature of it.
And she was saying that as the
larger Pluto movement happens,
it's moving into Aquarius, OK?
When it moves into
Aquarius, it's
a very permeable thought
field and can be easily
swayed and influenced.
So it's as though we're
ramping up to that,
and technology is taking
us there even faster.
So now the awareness of
that kind of fluidity
of the mental
field, I think, it's
upon us now to take
responsibility and start
feeding it good
nutrients, good thoughts,
good nutrients, feeding
it emotions that are,
like you say, kind and helpful.
So talk about that
a little bit and how
you recommend to people through
your work and your book they
reestablish healthy
self-esteem and can
start creating a cohesive
field of emotion and thought.
>>MOORJANI: I love that, and
I love the way you think.
So what I actually feel
is that, right now,
because of materialistic
science and the beliefs
of the world today is
that we are so focused
on science and technology and
AI that our souls are actually
hungry, very hungry.
Our consciousness-- let's
say our consciousness is
deprived and hungry.
We're feeding our brain
but not our heart.
So what's happening is we have
developed all this technology,
but we are immature.
We're consciously unaware.
So currently, all this
technology that we've developed
is being used for negative
and not for positive.
In other words, we
have more technology
that could kill the planet
than could feed the planet.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>MOORJANI: Why is that?
And that in itself
tells us a lot
about where we are in our
conscious awareness evolution.
We have a long way to go.
So what we really
need to start doing,
and this is what I
try to do, and this
is what I hope my work
contributes in doing
and everything I put out,
everything that I put out
in my name, I want it to
raise conscious awareness.
Not just raise joy that's
important and kindness and
empathy, but all of
those things even
they raise conscious awareness.
And when we come from a
place of kindness and joy,
and when we teach people
that it's possible,
that that's actually
all that matters when you
die, that's all that matters--
>>REGINA: That's
all that matters,
and that's a choice every
moment of every day.
>>MOORJANI: Yes, yes.
And when that can be seen
as the strength, when
instead of seeing ruthlessness
as a strength-- you see,
that's the other problem,
is that we look up
to ruthless people.
We vote them in to
positions of power.
We need to vote in people who
are kind, who are empathic.
So when we start to
see those and when
we start to redefine what
the word strength means,
and we redefine it--
because at the moment, we
see empathy and sensitivity
as a weakness.
What if we decided
it was a strength?
And that people who were
willing to be vulnerable
and to show their sensitivity
and we saw them as strong?
That would shift.
It would soon shift.
Once we bring all that
into the education system
and we bring it into
mainstream media,
and that would actually
shift our consciousness.
When our consciousness
shifts, then
what we build in our
technology will shift.
>>REGINA: And I
think what you're
telling us is a preview of the
new human and the new Earth.
I do believe that's the
choice we will ultimately
end up making collectively.
But right now, it
looks a little dim.
But I think that is
where we're going.
But it's such a beautiful
message that you share,
so people can start taking that
responsibility in a lovely way
upon themselves.
It's not a burden to be kind.
>>MOORJANI: No, it's not.
>>REGINA: It's not a burden
to be joyful and caring.
It's not a burden.
It's fun.
>>MOORJANI: It is fun.
It's a lot of fun
and connection.
It's bonding with
people and not needing
to be right to that
extent and knowing
that everyone has their
different ways of seeing
things.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MOORJANI: And you see,
another problem right now
is what I call algorithms.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>MOORJANI: Because the reason
why people think they are
so right is because when they
believe something and when
you're researching
it on the internet,
every information
that you're then fed--
>>REGINA: Is going
to support that.
>>MOORJANI: Is going
>>REGINA: Whereas one powerful
experience like yours,
one explosion of
true-knowing from the heart
can change the trajectory,
not only of you but of others
now in a flash, where
those algorithms have
to be fed and grown
in a dish, Petri dish,
in a very unconscious
way to start
leading people to
outcomes that can't
compete with the human spirit.
And you're a beautiful
soul, and I'm
so glad I finally had
a chance to meet you.
Our time is up.
If there's one more
final thought you have,
let's squeeze it in.
>>MOORJANI: Well, I would
just want people to know that
the most important
thing is to really--
it's to love yourself.
It's to really love yourself.
Find your joy.
Follow your passion.
Do what makes you happy.
And if all else
fails, eat chocolate.
That always works.
>>REGINA: That's my backup.
At the end of each
day, that's what I do.
Anita, thank you so much.
Absolutely lovely
being with you.
>>MOORJANI: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Anita's
new book, again,
is "Sensitive Is
the New Strong."
It's available now,
and it takes the reader
through the journey
of moving through fear
to love and into
magnificence, actually.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]